1 Notes on the Free Translation Project
***************************************

Free software is going international!  The Free Translation Project is
a way to get maintainers of free software, translators, and users all
together, so that free software will gradually become able to speak many
languages.  A few packages already provide translations for their
messages.

   If you found this `ABOUT-NLS' file inside a distribution, you may
assume that the distributed package does use GNU `gettext' internally,
itself available at your nearest GNU archive site.  But you do _not_
need to install GNU `gettext' prior to configuring, installing or using
this package with messages translated.

   Installers will find here some useful hints.  These notes also
explain how users should proceed for getting the programs to use the
available translations.  They tell how people wanting to contribute and
work on translations can contact the appropriate team.

1.1 INSTALL Matters
===================

Some packages are "localizable" when properly installed; the programs
they contain can be made to speak your own native language.  Most such
packages use GNU `gettext'.  Other packages have their own ways to
internationalization, predating GNU `gettext'.

   By default, this package will be installed to allow translation of
messages.  It will automatically detect whether the system already
provides the GNU `gettext' functions.  Installers may use special
options at configuration time for changing the default behaviour.  The
command:

     ./configure --disable-nls

will _totally_ disable translation of messages.

   When you already have GNU `gettext' installed on your system and run
configure without an option for your new package, `configure' will
probably detect the previously built and installed `libintl' library
and will decide to use it.  If not, you may have to to use the
`--with-libintl-prefix' option to tell `configure' where to look for it.

   Internationalized packages usually have many `po/LL.po' files, where
LL gives an ISO 639 two-letter code identifying the language.  Unless
translations have been forbidden at `configure' time by using the
`--disable-nls' switch, all available translations are installed
together with the package.  However, the environment variable `LINGUAS'
may be set, prior to configuration, to limit the installed set.
`LINGUAS' should then contain a space separated list of two-letter
codes, stating which languages are allowed.

1.2 Using This Package
======================

As a user, if your language has been installed for this package, you
only have to set the `LANG' environment variable to the appropriate
`LL_CC' combination.  If you happen to have the `LC_ALL' or some other
`LC_xxx' environment variables set, you should unset them before
setting `LANG', otherwise the setting of `LANG' will not have the
desired effect.  Here `LL' is an ISO 639 two-letter language code, and
`CC' is an ISO 3166 two-letter country code.  For example, let's
suppose that you speak German and live in Germany.  At the shell
prompt, merely execute `setenv LANG de_DE' (in `csh'),
`export LANG; LANG=de_DE' (in `sh') or `export LANG=de_DE' (in `bash').
This can be done from your `.login' or `.profile' file, once and for
all.

   You might think that the country code specification is redundant.
But in fact, some languages have dialects in different countries.  For
example, `de_AT' is used for Austria, and `pt_BR' for Brazil.  The
country code serves to distinguish the dialects.

   The locale naming convention of `LL_CC', with `LL' denoting the
language and `CC' denoting the country, is the one use on systems based
on GNU libc.  On other systems, some variations of this scheme are
used, such as `LL' or `LL_CC.ENCODING'.  You can get the list of
locales supported by your system for your language by running the
command `locale -a | grep '^LL''.

   Not all programs have translations for all languages.  By default, an
English message is shown in place of a nonexistent translation.  If you
understand other languages, you can set up a priority list of languages.
This is done through a different environment variable, called
`LANGUAGE'.  GNU `gettext' gives preference to `LANGUAGE' over `LANG'
for the purpose of message handling, but you still need to have `LANG'
set to the primary language; this is required by other parts of the
system libraries.  For example, some Swedish users who would rather
read translations in German than English for when Swedish is not
available, set `LANGUAGE' to `sv:de' while leaving `LANG' to `sv_SE'.

   Special advice for Norwegian users: The language code for Norwegian
bokma*l changed from `no' to `nb' recently (in 2003).  During the
transition period, while some message catalogs for this language are
installed under `nb' and some older ones under `no', it's recommended
for Norwegian users to set `LANGUAGE' to `nb:no' so that both newer and
older translations are used.

   In the `LANGUAGE' environment variable, but not in the `LANG'
environment variable, `LL_CC' combinations can be abbreviated as `LL'
to denote the language's main dialect.  For example, `de' is equivalent
to `de_DE' (German as spoken in Germany), and `pt' to `pt_PT'
(Portuguese as spoken in Portugal) in this context.

1.3 Translating Teams
=====================

For the Free Translation Project to be a success, we need interested
people who like their own language and write it well, and who are also
able to synergize with other translators speaking the same language.
Each translation team has its own mailing list.  The up-to-date list of
teams can be found at the Free Translation Project's homepage,
`http://translationproject.org/', in the "Teams" area.

   If you'd like to volunteer to _work_ at translating messages, you
should become a member of the translating team for your own language.
The subscribing address is _not_ the same as the list itself, it has
`-request' appended.  For example, speakers of Swedish can send a
message to `sv-request@li.org', having this message body:

     subscribe

   Keep in mind that team members are expected to participate
_actively_ in translations, or at solving translational difficulties,
rather than merely lurking around.  If your team does not exist yet and
you want to start one, or if you are unsure about what to do or how to
get started, please write to `coordinator@translationproject.org' to
reach the coordinator for all translator teams.

   The English team is special.  It works at improving and uniformizing
the terminology in use.  Proven linguistic skills are praised more than
programming skills, here.

1.4 Available Packages
======================

Languages are not equally supported in all packages.  The following
matrix shows the current state of internationalization, as of June
2010.  The matrix shows, in regard of each package, for which languages
PO files have been submitted to translation coordination, with a
translation percentage of at least 50%.

     Ready PO files       af am an ar as ast az be bg bn bn_IN bs ca crh cs
                        +---------------------------------------------------+
     a2ps               |                       []                []     [] |
     aegis              |                                                   |
     anubis             |                                                   |
     aspell             |                []                       []     [] |
     bash               |                          []             []     [] |
     bfd                |                                                   |
     binutils           |                                         []        |
     bison              |                                                   |
     bison-runtime      |                []                                 |
     buzztrax           |                                                [] |
     ccd2cue            |                                                   |
     ccide              |                                                   |
     cflow              |                                                   |
     clisp              |                                                   |
     coreutils          |                                         []     [] |
     cpio               |                                                   |
     cppi               |                                                   |
     cpplib             |                                         []        |
     cryptsetup         |                                                [] |
     datamash           |                                                   |
     denemo             |                                         []     [] |
     dfarc              |                                         []        |
     dialog             |       []                                []     [] |
     dico               |                                                   |
     diffutils          |                                                [] |
     dink               |                                         []        |
     direvent           |                                                   |
     doodle             |                                                [] |
     dos2unix           |                                                   |
     dos2unix-man       |                                                   |
     e2fsprogs          |                                         []     [] |
     enscript           |                                         []        |
     exif               |                                                [] |
     fetchmail          |                                         []     [] |
     findutils          |                                                [] |
     flex               |                                         []        |
     freedink           |                                         []     [] |
     fusionforge        |                                                   |
     gas                |                                                   |
     gawk               |                                         []        |
     gcal               |                                         []        |
     gcc                |                                                   |
     gdbm               |                                                   |
     gettext-examples   | []             []        []             []     [] |
     gettext-runtime    |                          []             []     [] |
     gettext-tools      |                          []             []        |
     gip                |                          []                    [] |
     gjay               |                                                   |
     glunarclock        |                []        []                    [] |
     gnubiff            |                                                [] |
     gnubik             |          []                                       |
     gnucash            |          ()              ()             []        |
     gnuchess           |                                                   |
     gnulib             |                                                [] |
     gnunet             |                                                   |
     gnunet-gtk         |                                                   |
     gold               |                                                   |
     gphoto2            |                                                [] |
     gprof              |                          []                       |
     gpsdrive           |                                                   |
     gramadoir          |                                                   |
     grep               |                                         []     [] |
     grub               |                                         []        |
     gsasl              |                                                   |
     gss                |                                                   |
     gst-plugins-bad    |                                                [] |
     gst-plugins-base   |                          []             []     [] |
     gst-plugins-good   |                          []             []     [] |
     gst-plugins-ugly   |                          []             []     [] |
     gstreamer          |                []        []             []     [] |
     gtick              |                                                [] |
     gtkam              |                       []                       [] |
     gtkorphan          |                          []                    [] |
     gtkspell           | []             []     []                []     [] |
     guix               |                                                   |
     guix-packages      |                                                   |
     gutenprint         |                                         []        |
     hello              |                                         []        |
     help2man           |                                                   |
     help2man-texi      |                                                   |
     hylafax            |                                                   |
     idutils            |                                                   |
     indent             |                          []             []     [] |
     iso_15924          |                                                [] |
     iso_3166           | []          []        [] [] []  []   [] [] []  [] |
     iso_3166_2         |                                                   |
     iso_4217           |                                                [] |
     iso_639            |             [] []     [] [] []  []      [] []  [] |
     iso_639_3          |                []                          []     |
     iso_639_5          |                                                   |
     jwhois             |                                                   |
     kbd                |                                                [] |
     klavaro            |          []              [] []          []     [] |
     latrine            |                                                   |
     ld                 |                          []                       |
     leafpad            |                       [] []             []     [] |
     libc               |                          []             []     [] |
     libexif            |                       ()                          |
     libextractor       |                                                   |
     libgnutls          |                                                [] |
     libgpg-error       |                                                [] |
     libgphoto2         |                                                [] |
     libgphoto2_port    |                                                [] |
     libgsasl           |                                                   |
     libiconv           |                          []                    [] |
     libidn             |                                                [] |
     liferea            |          []    []                       []     [] |
     lilypond           |                                         []     [] |
     lordsawar          |                                         []        |
     lprng              |                                                   |
     lynx               |                                         []     [] |
     m4                 |                                                [] |
     mailfromd          |                                                   |
     mailutils          |                                                   |
     make               |                                                [] |
     man-db             |                                         []     [] |
     man-db-manpages    |                                                   |
     midi-instruments   |          []                             []     [] |
     minicom            |                                                [] |
     mkisofs            |                                                [] |
     myserver           |                                                [] |
     nano               |                          []             []     [] |
     opcodes            |                                                   |
     parted             |                                                [] |
     pies               |                                                   |
     popt               |                                                [] |
     procps-ng          |                                                   |
     procps-ng-man      |                                                   |
     psmisc             |                                                [] |
     pspp               |                                         []        |
     pushover           |                                                [] |
     pwdutils           |                                                   |
     pyspread           |                                                   |
     radius             |                                         []        |
     recode             |                       []                []     [] |
     recutils           |                                                   |
     rpm                |                                                   |
     rush               |                                                   |
     sarg               |                                                   |
     sed                |                []                       []     [] |
     sharutils          |                                                [] |
     shishi             |                                                   |
     solfege            |                                                [] |
     solfege-manual     |                                                   |
     spotmachine        |                                                   |
     sudo               |                                         []     [] |
     sudoers            |                                         []     [] |
     sysstat            |                                                [] |
     tar                |                          []             []     [] |
     texinfo            |                                         []     [] |
     texinfo_document   |                                         []        |
     tigervnc           |                                                   |
     tin                |                                                   |
     tin-man            |                                                   |
     tracgoogleappsa... |                                                   |
     trader             |                                                   |
     util-linux         |                                                [] |
     ve                 |                                                   |
     vice               |                                                   |
     vmm                |                                                   |
     vorbis-tools       |                                                [] |
     wastesedge         |                                                   |
     wcd                |                                                   |
     wcd-man            |                                                   |
     wdiff              |                                         []     [] |
     wget               |                                                [] |
     wyslij-po          |                                                   |
     xboard             |                                                   |
     xdg-user-dirs      | []    []    [] []     [] []     []      [] []  [] |
     xkeyboard-config   |                          []             []     [] |
                        +---------------------------------------------------+
                          af am an ar as ast az be bg bn bn_IN bs ca crh cs
                           4  0  2  4  3 11   0  8 24  3   3    1 55  4  77

                          da  de  el en en_GB en_ZA eo es et eu fa fi  fr 
                        +--------------------------------------------------+
     a2ps               | []  []  []     []         [] [] []       []  []  |
     aegis              | []  []                       []              []  |
     anubis             | []  []                       []          []  []  |
     aspell             | []  []         []         [] []          []  []  |
     bash               | []                        [] []          []  []  |
     bfd                | []                           []          []  []  |
     binutils           |                              []          []  []  |
     bison              | []  []  []                [] [] []       []  []  |
     bison-runtime      | []  []  []                [] [] []       []  []  |
     buzztrax           | []  []                                   []  []  |
     ccd2cue            | []  []                                       []  |
     ccide              | []  []                    [] []          []  []  |
     cflow              | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     clisp              | []  []     []                []              []  |
     coreutils          | []  []                    [] [] []           []  |
     cpio               | []  []                       []          []  []  |
     cppi               | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     cpplib             | []  []                    [] []          []  []  |
     cryptsetup         | []  []                       []          []  []  |
     datamash           | []  []                    []                 []  |
     denemo             |                                                  |
     dfarc              | []  []                    [] []          []  []  |
     dialog             | []  []  []                [] []    [] [] []  []  |
     dico               | []  []                                   []  []  |
     diffutils          | []  []  []                [] []              []  |
     dink               | []  []                    [] []          []  []  |
     direvent           | []  []                    []                 []  |
     doodle             | []  []                    []             []      |
     dos2unix           | []  []                    [] []              []  |
     dos2unix-man       |     []                       []              []  |
     e2fsprogs          | []  []                    [] []              []  |
     enscript           | []  []         []         []             []  []  |
     exif               | []  []                    [] []          []  []  |
     fetchmail          | []  ()  []     []         [] []              []  |
     findutils          | []  []  []                [] [] []       []  []  |
     flex               | []  []                    [] []          []  []  |
     freedink           | []  []  []                [] []    []    []  []  |
     fusionforge        |     []                       []              []  |
     gas                |                              []          []  []  |
     gawk               | []  []                       []          []  []  |
     gcal               | []  []                       []              []  |
     gcc                |     []                       []                  |
     gdbm               | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     gettext-examples   | []  []  []                [] []          []  []  |
     gettext-runtime    | []  []                    [] []          []  []  |
     gettext-tools      | []  []                       []          []  []  |
     gip                | []  []                    [] []    []    []  []  |
     gjay               |     []                    []             []  []  |
     glunarclock        | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     gnubiff            |     ()                    []             []  ()  |
     gnubik             | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     gnucash            | []  ()  ()     ()            ()          ()  ()  |
     gnuchess           |     []                    [] []              []  |
     gnulib             | []  []                    [] [] []       []  []  |
     gnunet             |                              []                  |
     gnunet-gtk         |     []                                           |
     gold               |                              []          []  []  |
     gphoto2            | []  ()                    []       []        []  |
     gprof              | []  []                    [] []          []  []  |
     gpsdrive           | []  []                       [] []               |
     gramadoir          | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     grep               | []  []                    [] [] []       []  []  |
     grub               | []  []                       []          []  []  |
     gsasl              | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     gss                | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     gst-plugins-bad    | []  []                                           |
     gst-plugins-base   | []  []  []                   []          []  []  |
     gst-plugins-good   | []  []  []                   []    []    []  []  |
     gst-plugins-ugly   | []  []  []                [] []    []    []  []  |
     gstreamer          | []  []  []                   []    []    []  []  |
     gtick              | []  ()                    []             []  []  |
     gtkam              | []  ()                    [] []          []  []  |
     gtkorphan          | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     gtkspell           | []  []  []                [] []    []    []  []  |
     guix               | []                        []                 []  |
     guix-packages      |                                                  |
     gutenprint         | []  []                                   []  []  |
     hello              | []  []  []                [] [] []       []  []  |
     help2man           | []  []  []                [] []          []  []  |
     help2man-texi      |     []                       []              []  |
     hylafax            |     []                       []                  |
     idutils            | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     indent             | []  []  []                [] [] [] []    []  []  |
     iso_15924          | []  ()                    [] []    ()    []  ()  |
     iso_3166           | []  ()  []                [] [] [] ()    []  ()  |
     iso_3166_2         | []  ()                             ()        ()  |
     iso_4217           | []  ()  []                   [] [] ()    []  ()  |
     iso_639            | []  ()                    [] []    ()    []  ()  |
     iso_639_3          |     ()                             ()        ()  |
     iso_639_5          |     ()                             ()        ()  |
     jwhois             |     []                    [] []          []  []  |
     kbd                | []  []  []                [] []              []  |
     klavaro            | []  []  []                [] []    []        []  |
     latrine            | []  ()                    []             []      |
     ld                 | []                           []          []  []  |
     leafpad            | []  []  []                [] []    []    []  []  |
     libc               | []  []                       []          []  []  |
     libexif            | []  []         ()            []              []  |
     libextractor       |     []                                           |
     libgnutls          |     []                    []             []  []  |
     libgpg-error       |     []                    []                 []  |
     libgphoto2         | []  ()                                       []  |
     libgphoto2_port    | []  ()                       []    []    []  []  |
     libgsasl           | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     libiconv           | []  []                    [] [] []       []  []  |
     libidn             | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     liferea            | []  ()  []                   []    []    []  []  |
     lilypond           | []  []  []                [] []              []  |
     lordsawar          | []  []                                           |
     lprng              |                                                  |
     lynx               | []  []                    []    []       []  []  |
     m4                 | []  []  []                []             []  []  |
     mailfromd          |                                                  |
     mailutils          |     []                       []          []  []  |
     make               | []  []                       []              []  |
     man-db             | []  []                    []                 []  |
     man-db-manpages    |     []                                       []  |
     midi-instruments   | []  []  []                [] [] []    [] []  []  |
     minicom            | []  []                       []          []  []  |
     mkisofs            |                           []             []  []  |
     myserver           |     []                    []             []  []  |
     nano               | []  []                    [] []    []    []  []  |
     opcodes            | []  []                       []          []  []  |
     parted             | []  []                                       []  |
     pies               |     []                                           |
     popt               | []  []                    [] []          []  []  |
     procps-ng          |     []                                       []  |
     procps-ng-man      |     []                                       []  |
     psmisc             | []  []  []                []       []    []  []  |
     pspp               |     []                       []              []  |
     pushover           |     ()                    [] []              []  |
     pwdutils           | []  []                                       []  |
     pyspread           | []  []                                           |
     radius             |                              []              []  |
     recode             | []  []  []                [] []          []  []  |
     recutils           |     []                       []          []  []  |
     rpm                | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     rush               |     []                                   []  []  |
     sarg               | []                                           []  |
     sed                | []  []  []                [] [] []       []  []  |
     sharutils          |     []                    []    []           []  |
     shishi             |     []                                   []  []  |
     solfege            | []  []                    [] [] []    [] []  []  |
     solfege-manual     |     []                    [] [] []           []  |
     spotmachine        | []  []                    []                     |
     sudo               | []  []                    [] []          []  []  |
     sudoers            | []  []  []                []             []  []  |
     sysstat            | []  []                    [] []    []    []  []  |
     tar                | []  []                    [] [] []       []  []  |
     texinfo            | []  []                    [] []              []  |
     texinfo_document   |     []                    [] []              []  |
     tigervnc           |     []  []                []             []  []  |
     tin                | []  []                          []           []  |
     tin-man            |                []                                |
     tracgoogleappsa... | []  []                    []             []  []  |
     trader             | []  []         []         []             []  []  |
     util-linux         | []  []                       []              []  |
     ve                 |     []                    [] []          []  []  |
     vice               | ()  ()                                       ()  |
     vmm                |     []                                   []      |
     vorbis-tools       | []  []                    []                 []  |
     wastesedge         | []                                           ()  |
     wcd                |     []                    [] []          []      |
     wcd-man            |     []                                           |
     wdiff              | []  []                    [] [] []       []  []  |
     wget               |     []                    [] [] []       []  []  |
     wyslij-po          |     []                    []             []  []  |
     xboard             | []  []                       []              []  |
     xdg-user-dirs      | []  []  []                [] [] [] [] [] []  []  |
     xkeyboard-config   | []  []  []                [] []          []  []  |
                        +--------------------------------------------------+
                          da  de  el en en_GB en_ZA eo es et eu fa fi  fr 
                          122 135 33  1   6     0   99 98 24 17  4 105 138

                          ga gd gl gu he hi hr hu hy ia id is it ja ka kk
                        +-------------------------------------------------+
     a2ps               |                   []          []    [] []       |
     aegis              |                                     []          |
     anubis             |                   [] []       []    []          |
     aspell             | []                []          []    [] []       |
     bash               |                      []       []    [] []       |
     bfd                |                               []       []       |
     binutils           |                               []    [] []       |
     bison              |                   []                            |
     bison-runtime      | []    []          [] []    [] []    [] []       |
     buzztrax           |                                                 |
     ccd2cue            |                      []                         |
     ccide              |                   [] []                         |
     cflow              | []                []          []                |
     clisp              |                                                 |
     coreutils          |                      []       []    [] []       |
     cpio               | []                [] []       []    [] []       |
     cppi               |       []          [] []             [] []       |
     cpplib             |                               []       []       |
     cryptsetup         |                                     []          |
     datamash           |                                                 |
     denemo             |                                     []          |
     dfarc              |                   [] []             []          |
     dialog             | [] [] []          [] []    [] [] [] [] []       |
     dico               |                                                 |
     diffutils          |                      []       []    [] []       |
     dink               |                      []                         |
     direvent           |                      []                         |
     doodle             | []                                  []          |
     dos2unix           |                      []                []       |
     dos2unix-man       |                                                 |
     e2fsprogs          |                               []                |
     enscript           | []                []          []                |
     exif               |       []          []          [] [] [] []       |
     fetchmail          |                               []    [] []       |
     findutils          | []    []          [] []       []    [] []       |
     flex               | []                                              |
     freedink           |                   [] []       []    []          |
     fusionforge        |                                                 |
     gas                |                               []                |
     gawk               |                               []    () []       |
     gcal               |                                                 |
     gcc                |                                                 |
     gdbm               |                                                 |
     gettext-examples   | []    []          [] []       []    [] []       |
     gettext-runtime    | []    []          [] []       []    [] []       |
     gettext-tools      |                               []    [] []       |
     gip                | []    []          [] []       []       []       |
     gjay               |       []                                        |
     glunarclock        | []    []          [] []       []    []          |
     gnubiff            |                      []       []    ()          |
     gnubik             |       []          []                []          |
     gnucash            |          () () ()    ()             () []       |
     gnuchess           |                                                 |
     gnulib             | []    []             []             [] []       |
     gnunet             |                                                 |
     gnunet-gtk         |                                                 |
     gold               |                               []    []          |
     gphoto2            |                      []       []    [] []       |
     gprof              | []                   []       []    []          |
     gpsdrive           |       []             []       []    []          |
     gramadoir          | []                   []       []                |
     grep               | []    []          [] []       []    [] []       |
     grub               |       []             []             []          |
     gsasl              | []                [] []       []    []          |
     gss                | []                [] []       []    []          |
     gst-plugins-bad    |                      []                         |
     gst-plugins-base   |       []          [] []       []                |
     gst-plugins-good   |       []          [] []       []    [] []       |
     gst-plugins-ugly   |       []          [] []       []    [] []       |
     gstreamer          |       []          [] []       []    []          |
     gtick              | []    []             []       []    []          |
     gtkam              |                      []       [] [] [] []       |
     gtkorphan          |                   [] []       []    []          |
     gtkspell           | []    []    []    [] [] []    [] [] [] []       |
     guix               |                      []                         |
     guix-packages      |                                                 |
     gutenprint         |       []             []             []          |
     hello              | []    []          [] []       []                |
     help2man           |                   []                [] []       |
     help2man-texi      |                                                 |
     hylafax            |                               []                |
     idutils            |                      []       []                |
     indent             | []    []          [] []       []    [] []       |
     iso_15924          |       []             []    [] [] [] []          |
     iso_3166           | []    [] [] [] [] [] []    [] [] [] [] []    [] |
     iso_3166_2         |                               []    []          |
     iso_4217           |                   [] []       [] [] [] []       |
     iso_639            | []    [] []       [] []       [] [] [] []       |
     iso_639_3          |       []                            []          |
     iso_639_5          |                                                 |
     jwhois             |       []             []       []    []          |
     kbd                |                      []       []    []          |
     klavaro            |       []             []             []       [] |
     latrine            |                      []                         |
     ld                 | []                            []    [] []       |
     leafpad            | []    []    []    [] []       []    [] ()       |
     libc               |       []          []          []    [] []       |
     libexif            |                                     []          |
     libextractor       |                                                 |
     libgnutls          |                                     []          |
     libgpg-error       |                      []             [] []       |
     libgphoto2         |                                        []       |
     libgphoto2_port    |                                     [] []       |
     libgsasl           | []                   []       []    []          |
     libiconv           | []    []          [] []       []    [] []       |
     libidn             |                   [] []       []    []          |
     liferea            |       []    []       []             [] []       |
     lilypond           |                                     []          |
     lordsawar          |                                                 |
     lprng              |                               []                |
     lynx               |                      []       []    [] []       |
     m4                 | []    []          []          []       []       |
     mailfromd          |                                                 |
     mailutils          |                                                 |
     make               |                   []          []    [] []       |
     man-db             |                               []       []       |
     man-db-manpages    |                               []       []       |
     midi-instruments   |       []    []    [] [] []    [] [] [] []       |
     minicom            |                      []       []       []       |
     mkisofs            |                               []    []          |
     myserver           |                                     []          |
     nano               | []    []             []             [] []       |
     opcodes            | []                            []    []          |
     parted             |       []                      []    [] []       |
     pies               |                                                 |
     popt               | []    [] []       [] []    [] [] [] [] []       |
     procps-ng          |                                                 |
     procps-ng-man      |                                                 |
     psmisc             |                   [] []       []    []          |
     pspp               |       []                               []       |
     pushover           |                                     []          |
     pwdutils           |                               []                |
     pyspread           |                                                 |
     radius             |                               []                |
     recode             | []    []    []    [] []       []    []          |
     recutils           |                                                 |
     rpm                |                               []                |
     rush               |       []                                        |
     sarg               |                                                 |
     sed                | []    []          [] []       []    [] []       |
     sharutils          |                                                 |
     shishi             |                                                 |
     solfege            |       []                            []          |
     solfege-manual     |                                                 |
     spotmachine        |                                                 |
     sudo               |       []          []                [] []       |
     sudoers            |                   []                [] []       |
     sysstat            |                   [] []       []       []       |
     tar                | []                [] []       []    [] []       |
     texinfo            |                   []          []    []          |
     texinfo_document   |                      []             []          |
     tigervnc           |                                                 |
     tin                |                                                 |
     tin-man            |                                                 |
     tracgoogleappsa... |       []    []    [] []                         |
     trader             |                   [] []                         |
     util-linux         |                                        []       |
     ve                 |                                     []          |
     vice               |                      ()             ()          |
     vmm                |                                                 |
     vorbis-tools       |                   []          []                |
     wastesedge         |                                     ()          |
     wcd                |                                                 |
     wcd-man            |                                                 |
     wdiff              |       []             []             []          |
     wget               |                      []       []    [] []       |
     wyslij-po          |       []          []          []                |
     xboard             |                                                 |
     xdg-user-dirs      | [] [] [] [] [] [] [] []    [] [] [] [] []    [] |
     xkeyboard-config   |       []             []       []    [] []       |
                        +-------------------------------------------------+
                          ga gd gl gu he hi hr hu hy ia id is it ja ka kk
                          37  2 50  4  8  2 56 75  2  6 86 11 89 61  0  3

                          kn ko ku ky lg lt lv mk ml mn mr ms mt nb ne nl 
                        +--------------------------------------------------+
     a2ps               |                                  []          []  |
     aegis              |                                              []  |
     anubis             |                                  []    []    []  |
     aspell             |                            []                []  |
     bash               |                                        []    []  |
     bfd                |                                                  |
     binutils           |                                                  |
     bison              |                                              []  |
     bison-runtime      |          []    [] []             []    []    []  |
     buzztrax           |                                                  |
     ccd2cue            |                                                  |
     ccide              |                   []                         []  |
     cflow              |                                              []  |
     clisp              |                                              []  |
     coreutils          |             []                         []    []  |
     cpio               |                                              []  |
     cppi               |                                                  |
     cpplib             |                                              []  |
     cryptsetup         |                                              []  |
     datamash           |                                              []  |
     denemo             |                                                  |
     dfarc              |                      []                      []  |
     dialog             |       []       [] []             []    []    []  |
     dico               |                                                  |
     diffutils          |                   []                   []    []  |
     dink               |                                              []  |
     direvent           |                                              []  |
     doodle             |                                              []  |
     dos2unix           |                                        []    []  |
     dos2unix-man       |                                              []  |
     e2fsprogs          |                                              []  |
     enscript           |                                              []  |
     exif               |                   []                         []  |
     fetchmail          |                                              []  |
     findutils          |                                        []    []  |
     flex               |                                              []  |
     freedink           |                                        []    []  |
     fusionforge        |                                                  |
     gas                |                                                  |
     gawk               |                                              []  |
     gcal               |                                                  |
     gcc                |                                                  |
     gdbm               |                                                  |
     gettext-examples   |          []       []             [] [] []    []  |
     gettext-runtime    |    []                                        []  |
     gettext-tools      |    []                                            |
     gip                |                   []             []          []  |
     gjay               |                                                  |
     glunarclock        |                   []                         []  |
     gnubiff            |                                              []  |
     gnubik             |                                        []    []  |
     gnucash            | () ()          () ()          ()       () () []  |
     gnuchess           |                                        []    []  |
     gnulib             |                                              []  |
     gnunet             |                                                  |
     gnunet-gtk         |                                                  |
     gold               |                                                  |
     gphoto2            |                                              []  |
     gprof              |                                  []          []  |
     gpsdrive           |                                              []  |
     gramadoir          |                                              []  |
     grep               |                                        []    []  |
     grub               |                []                      []    []  |
     gsasl              |                                              []  |
     gss                |                                                  |
     gst-plugins-bad    |                                        []        |
     gst-plugins-base   |                   []                   []    []  |
     gst-plugins-good   |                [] []                   []    []  |
     gst-plugins-ugly   |                   []             [] [] []    []  |
     gstreamer          |                []                            []  |
     gtick              |                                              []  |
     gtkam              |                                        []    []  |
     gtkorphan          |                   []                         []  |
     gtkspell           |          []    [] []       []    []    []    []  |
     guix               |                                                  |
     guix-packages      |                                                  |
     gutenprint         |                                              []  |
     hello              |                   []                   []    []  |
     help2man           |                                        []        |
     help2man-texi      |                                                  |
     hylafax            |                                              []  |
     idutils            |                                              []  |
     indent             |                                              []  |
     iso_15924          |                () []                         []  |
     iso_3166           | [] [] []       () [] [] []    []       []    []  |
     iso_3166_2         |                ()                            []  |
     iso_4217           |                () []                   []    []  |
     iso_639            | [] []          () []    []    []             []  |
     iso_639_3          | []             ()             []                 |
     iso_639_5          |                ()                                |
     jwhois             |                   []                         []  |
     kbd                |                                              []  |
     klavaro            |                                        []    []  |
     latrine            |                                                  |
     ld                 |                                                  |
     leafpad            |    []    []    [] []                         []  |
     libc               |    []                                        []  |
     libexif            |                                              []  |
     libextractor       |                                              []  |
     libgnutls          |                                  []          []  |
     libgpg-error       |                                              []  |
     libgphoto2         |                                              []  |
     libgphoto2_port    |                                              []  |
     libgsasl           |                                              []  |
     libiconv           |                []                            []  |
     libidn             |                                              []  |
     liferea            |                [] []                         []  |
     lilypond           |                                                  |
     lordsawar          |                                                  |
     lprng              |                                                  |
     lynx               |                                              []  |
     m4                 |                                              []  |
     mailfromd          |                                                  |
     mailutils          |                                                  |
     make               |    []                                        []  |
     man-db             |                                              []  |
     man-db-manpages    |                                              []  |
     midi-instruments   |    [] []       []          []    []       [] []  |
     minicom            |                                        []        |
     mkisofs            |                                              []  |
     myserver           |                                                  |
     nano               |                                  []    []    []  |
     opcodes            |                                              []  |
     parted             |                                              []  |
     pies               |                                                  |
     popt               | [] []             []                   []    []  |
     procps-ng          |                                                  |
     procps-ng-man      |                                                  |
     psmisc             |                                              []  |
     pspp               |                []                            []  |
     pushover           |                                                  |
     pwdutils           |                                              []  |
     pyspread           |                                                  |
     radius             |                                              []  |
     recode             |                                        []    []  |
     recutils           |                                              []  |
     rpm                |                                              []  |
     rush               |                                              []  |
     sarg               |                                                  |
     sed                |                                        []    []  |
     sharutils          |                                              []  |
     shishi             |                                                  |
     solfege            |                                        []    []  |
     solfege-manual     |                                              []  |
     spotmachine        |                                              []  |
     sudo               |                                        []    []  |
     sudoers            |                                        []    []  |
     sysstat            |                   []                   []    []  |
     tar                |          []                            []    []  |
     texinfo            |                                              []  |
     texinfo_document   |                                              []  |
     tigervnc           |                                              []  |
     tin                |                                                  |
     tin-man            |                                                  |
     tracgoogleappsa... |                   []                   []    []  |
     trader             |                                        []        |
     util-linux         |                                              []  |
     ve                 |                                              []  |
     vice               |                                              []  |
     vmm                |                                              []  |
     vorbis-tools       |                                              []  |
     wastesedge         |                                              []  |
     wcd                |                                              []  |
     wcd-man            |                                              []  |
     wdiff              |                                              []  |
     wget               |                                        []    []  |
     wyslij-po          |                                              []  |
     xboard             |                                              []  |
     xdg-user-dirs      | [] [] [] []    [] [] [] []    []       []    []  |
     xkeyboard-config   |    []          []                            []  |
                        +--------------------------------------------------+
                          kn ko ku ky lg lt lv mk ml mn mr ms mt nb ne nl 
                           5 11  4  6  1 13 25  3  3  3  4 12  2 39  1 127

                          nn or os pa pl  ps pt pt_BR ro ru rw sk sl sq sr 
                        +---------------------------------------------------+
     a2ps               |             []     []  []   [] []       []    []  |
     aegis              |                        []      []                 |
     anubis             |             []                 []             []  |
     aspell             |             []         []   [] []    [] []    []  |
     bash               |             []                 []    [] []    []  |
     bfd                |                                []                 |
     binutils           |                                []             []  |
     bison              |             []         []                     []  |
     bison-runtime      |             []     []  []   [] []       [] [] []  |
     buzztrax           |                                                   |
     ccd2cue            |                        []                         |
     ccide              |             []                 []             []  |
     cflow              |             []                                []  |
     clisp              |                                []                 |
     coreutils          |             []                 []       []    []  |
     cpio               |             []                 []             []  |
     cppi               |             []         []                     []  |
     cpplib             |                        []      []             []  |
     cryptsetup         |             []                                []  |
     datamash           |                        []                     []  |
     denemo             |                                                   |
     dfarc              |             []         []                     []  |
     dialog             |             []         []   [] []    [] []    []  |
     dico               |             []                                    |
     diffutils          |             []                                []  |
     dink               |                                                   |
     direvent           |             []         []                         |
     doodle             |                                            [] []  |
     dos2unix           |             []         []      []             []  |
     dos2unix-man       |             []         []                         |
     e2fsprogs          |             []                                    |
     enscript           |             []         []   [] []       []    []  |
     exif               |             []         []   [] []    []       []  |
     fetchmail          |             []                 []          []     |
     findutils          |             []         []      []       []    []  |
     flex               |             []         []   [] []             []  |
     freedink           |             []         []      []       []    []  |
     fusionforge        |                                                   |
     gas                |                                                   |
     gawk               |             []                                    |
     gcal               |                                                   |
     gcc                |                                                   |
     gdbm               |             []         []                     []  |
     gettext-examples   |             []     []  []   [] []    [] []    []  |
     gettext-runtime    | []          []     []  []   [] []    [] []    []  |
     gettext-tools      |             []         []   [] []    [] []    []  |
     gip                |             []         []      []    []       []  |
     gjay               |                                               []  |
     glunarclock        |             []         []   []       [] []    []  |
     gnubiff            |                                               []  |
     gnubik             |             []         []               []    []  |
     gnucash            |             ()         ()   () ()             []  |
     gnuchess           |                        []                     []  |
     gnulib             |             []         []      []       []    []  |
     gnunet             |                                                   |
     gnunet-gtk         |                                                   |
     gold               |                                                   |
     gphoto2            |             []         []   [] []    []       []  |
     gprof              |                        []   [] []             []  |
     gpsdrive           |                                []                 |
     gramadoir          |                                      []       []  |
     grep               |             []         []      []    [] []    []  |
     grub               |             []         []      []       []    []  |
     gsasl              |             []                       []       []  |
     gss                |             []              []       []       []  |
     gst-plugins-bad    |             []         []      []             []  |
     gst-plugins-base   |             []         []      []    [] []    []  |
     gst-plugins-good   |             []         []   [] []    [] []    []  |
     gst-plugins-ugly   |             []         []   [] []    [] []    []  |
     gstreamer          |             []         []   [] []    [] []    []  |
     gtick              |             []         []      []    []       []  |
     gtkam              |          [] []         []      []    []       []  |
     gtkorphan          |             []         []      []             []  |
     gtkspell           |             []     []  []   [] []    [] [] [] []  |
     guix               |                                               []  |
     guix-packages      |                                                   |
     gutenprint         |                                         []        |
     hello              |             []         []      []    [] []    []  |
     help2man           |             []         []      []             []  |
     help2man-texi      |             []                                    |
     hylafax            |                                                   |
     idutils            |             []                 []             []  |
     indent             |             []         []   [] []    []       []  |
     iso_15924          |             []     ()       [] []       []    []  |
     iso_3166           | [] []    [] []     ()  []   [] [] [] [] [] [] []  |
     iso_3166_2         |             []     ()                         []  |
     iso_4217           | []          []     ()       [] [] []    []    []  |
     iso_639            |    []    [] []     ()       [] [] [] [] []    []  |
     iso_639_3          |          []        ()                             |
     iso_639_5          |                    ()                         []  |
     jwhois             |             []         []   []                []  |
     kbd                |             []              [] []                 |
     klavaro            |          [] []         []      []       []        |
     latrine            |                        []                         |
     ld                 |                                                   |
     leafpad            | []    []    []     []  []      []    [] []    []  |
     libc               |             []                 []    []           |
     libexif            |             []         ()            []           |
     libextractor       |             []                                    |
     libgnutls          |             []                                    |
     libgpg-error       |             []              []                []  |
     libgphoto2         |             []                                    |
     libgphoto2_port    |             []         []      []    []       []  |
     libgsasl           |             []              []       []       []  |
     libiconv           |             []         []            [] []    []  |
     libidn             |             []         []                     []  |
     liferea            |             []     []  []   [] ()    []    []     |
     lilypond           |                                                   |
     lordsawar          |                                                   |
     lprng              |             []                                    |
     lynx               |                        []      []                 |
     m4                 |             []         []   [] []             []  |
     mailfromd          |             []                                    |
     mailutils          |             []                                    |
     make               |             []         []      []                 |
     man-db             |             []                 []             []  |
     man-db-manpages    |             []                 []             []  |
     midi-instruments   |             []     []  []   [] []    [] []    []  |
     minicom            |             []         []   [] []                 |
     mkisofs            |             []                 []             []  |
     myserver           |                                         []    []  |
     nano               |             []         []   [] []       []    []  |
     opcodes            |                                                   |
     parted             |             []         []      []    [] []    []  |
     pies               |             []                                    |
     popt               |             []     []  []      []       []    []  |
     procps-ng          |             []                                    |
     procps-ng-man      |             []                                    |
     psmisc             |             []         []      []             []  |
     pspp               |             []                                    |
     pushover           |                                                   |
     pwdutils           |             []                                    |
     pyspread           | []                     []                         |
     radius             |             []                 []                 |
     recode             |             []     []  []   [] []    [] []    []  |
     recutils           |                                               []  |
     rpm                |             []                                    |
     rush               |             []         []                     []  |
     sarg               |                        []                         |
     sed                |             []     []  []   [] []    [] []    []  |
     sharutils          |             []         []                     []  |
     shishi             |             []                                []  |
     solfege            |             []         []      []                 |
     solfege-manual     |             []         []                         |
     spotmachine        |                        []                     []  |
     sudo               |             []         []      []       []    []  |
     sudoers            |             []         []               []    []  |
     sysstat            |             []         []      []    []       []  |
     tar                |             []         []      []       []    []  |
     texinfo            |             []         []      []                 |
     texinfo_document   |             []         []                         |
     tigervnc           |                                                   |
     tin                |                                []                 |
     tin-man            |                                                   |
     tracgoogleappsa... |             []         []      []             []  |
     trader             |                                []                 |
     util-linux         |             []         []                         |
     ve                 |             []         []                     []  |
     vice               |                                                   |
     vmm                |                                                   |
     vorbis-tools       |             []                          []    []  |
     wastesedge         |                                                   |
     wcd                |                                                   |
     wcd-man            |                                                   |
     wdiff              |             []         []      []       []    []  |
     wget               |             []         []      []    []       []  |
     wyslij-po          | []          []         []                     []  |
     xboard             |             []                                []  |
     xdg-user-dirs      | [] []    [] []  [] []  []   [] []    [] [] [] []  |
     xkeyboard-config   |             []         []      []       []        |
                        +---------------------------------------------------+
                          nn or os pa pl  ps pt pt_BR ro ru rw sk sl sq sr 
                           7  3  1  6 118  1 12  85   35 81  3 39 45  7 100

                          sv sw ta te tg th tr uk  ur vi  wa wo zh_CN zh_HK
                        +---------------------------------------------------+
     a2ps               | []             [] [] []     []                    |
     aegis              |                             []                    |
     anubis             | []                [] []     []                    |
     aspell             |                      []     []  []     []         |
     bash               | []                [] []     []         []         |
     bfd                |                      []     []                    |
     binutils           | []                   []     []                    |
     bison              | []                   []     []                    |
     bison-runtime      | []             [] [] []     []         []         |
     buzztrax           | []                          []                    |
     ccd2cue            |                      []     []                    |
     ccide              |                      []     []                    |
     cflow              | []                   []     []         []         |
     clisp              |                                                   |
     coreutils          | []                   []     []         []         |
     cpio               | []                [] []     []         []         |
     cppi               | []                   []     []                    |
     cpplib             | []                [] []     []         []         |
     cryptsetup         |                      []     []                    |
     datamash           |                      []     []                    |
     denemo             |                                                   |
     dfarc              |                             []                    |
     dialog             | [] []          []           []  []     []         |
     dico               |                      []                           |
     diffutils          | []                [] []     []         []         |
     dink               |                                                   |
     direvent           |                      []     []                    |
     doodle             | []                          []                    |
     dos2unix           |                      []     []                    |
     dos2unix-man       |                      []                           |
     e2fsprogs          | []                   []     []                    |
     enscript           | []                [] []     []                    |
     exif               | []                [] []     []         []         |
     fetchmail          | []                []        []         []         |
     findutils          | []                [] []     []         []         |
     flex               | []                []        []                    |
     freedink           |                []           []                    |
     fusionforge        |                                                   |
     gas                |                      []                           |
     gawk               | []                          []                    |
     gcal               | []                []                              |
     gcc                | []                                     []         |
     gdbm               |                      []     []                    |
     gettext-examples   | []                [] []     []         []    []   |
     gettext-runtime    | []                [] []     []         []    []   |
     gettext-tools      | []                [] []     []         []         |
     gip                | []             []           []         []         |
     gjay               |                []           []                    |
     glunarclock        | []                          []  []     []         |
     gnubiff            | []                          []                    |
     gnubik             |                      []     []                    |
     gnucash            |       () ()              () ()         []         |
     gnuchess           |                      []     []                    |
     gnulib             | []                   []     []         []         |
     gnunet             |                                                   |
     gnunet-gtk         |                                                   |
     gold               |                      []     []                    |
     gphoto2            | []                   []     []         []         |
     gprof              | []                [] []     []                    |
     gpsdrive           | []                          []         []         |
     gramadoir          | []                          []         []         |
     grep               | []             []    []     []         []         |
     grub               | []                [] []     []                    |
     gsasl              | []                   []     []         []         |
     gss                | []                          []         []         |
     gst-plugins-bad    | []                   []     []                    |
     gst-plugins-base   | []                [] []     []                    |
     gst-plugins-good   | []                [] []     []         []         |
     gst-plugins-ugly   | []                [] []     []         []         |
     gstreamer          | []                [] []     []         []         |
     gtick              |                      []     []         []         |
     gtkam              | []                   []     []         []         |
     gtkorphan          | []                          []         []         |
     gtkspell           | []             [] [] []     []  []     []    []   |
     guix               |                             []                    |
     guix-packages      |                                                   |
     gutenprint         |                   [] []     []                    |
     hello              |                [] [] []     []         []         |
     help2man           |                      []     []                    |
     help2man-texi      |                      []                           |
     hylafax            |                             []                    |
     idutils            |                      []     []         []         |
     indent             | []                [] []     []         []         |
     iso_15924          |                () [] []     ()         []         |
     iso_3166           | []       []    () [] []     ()  []     []    []   |
     iso_3166_2         |                () [] []     ()         []         |
     iso_4217           | []             () [] []     ()         []    []   |
     iso_639            | []    [] []    () [] []     ()  []     []    []   |
     iso_639_3          |       []       () [] []     ()                    |
     iso_639_5          |                ()    []     ()                    |
     jwhois             | []                []        []         []         |
     kbd                | []                [] []     []         []         |
     klavaro            | []                   []  [] []     []  []         |
     latrine            |                             []                    |
     ld                 | []                [] []     []                    |
     leafpad            | []             [] [] []     []         []         |
     libc               | []                [] []     []         []         |
     libexif            |                             []         ()         |
     libextractor       |                      []     []                    |
     libgnutls          | []                   []     []         []         |
     libgpg-error       | []                   []     []         []         |
     libgphoto2         |                      []     []                    |
     libgphoto2_port    | []                   []     []         []         |
     libgsasl           | []                   []     []         []         |
     libiconv           | []                   []     []  []     []         |
     libidn             | ()                   []     []         []         |
     liferea            | []                [] []     []         []         |
     lilypond           |                             []                    |
     lordsawar          |                                                   |
     lprng              |                             []                    |
     lynx               | []                [] []     []                    |
     m4                 | []                          []         []         |
     mailfromd          |                      []     []                    |
     mailutils          |                             []                    |
     make               | []                   []     []                    |
     man-db             |                             []         []         |
     man-db-manpages    |                                        []         |
     midi-instruments   | []             [] [] []     []         []         |
     minicom            | []                          []                    |
     mkisofs            |                      []     []         []         |
     myserver           |                             []                    |
     nano               | []                   []     []         []         |
     opcodes            |                      []     []                    |
     parted             | []                [] []     []                    |
     pies               |                      []     []                    |
     popt               | []    []       [] [] []     []         []         |
     procps-ng          |                      []     []                    |
     procps-ng-man      |                      []                           |
     psmisc             | []                   []     []                    |
     pspp               |                   [] []                []         |
     pushover           | []                                                |
     pwdutils           | []                          []                    |
     pyspread           |                      []                           |
     radius             |                      []     []                    |
     recode             | []                []        []         []         |
     recutils           | []                   []     []                    |
     rpm                | []                   []     []                    |
     rush               |                      []     []                    |
     sarg               |                                                   |
     sed                | []                [] []     []         []         |
     sharutils          |                      []     []                    |
     shishi             |                             []                    |
     solfege            |                   []        []         []         |
     solfege-manual     |                   []                              |
     spotmachine        |                      []     []                    |
     sudo               |                   [] []     []         []         |
     sudoers            |                      []     []         []         |
     sysstat            |                   [] []     []                    |
     tar                | []                [] []     []         []         |
     texinfo            |                   [] []     []                    |
     texinfo_document   |                      []                           |
     tigervnc           |                      []                           |
     tin                |                                                   |
     tin-man            |                                                   |
     tracgoogleappsa... |                []    []     []         []         |
     trader             |                                                   |
     util-linux         |                      []     []         []         |
     ve                 |                      []     []                    |
     vice               | ()                ()                              |
     vmm                |                                                   |
     vorbis-tools       | []                          []                    |
     wastesedge         |                                                   |
     wcd                |                      []     []                    |
     wcd-man            |                      []                           |
     wdiff              | []                   []     []                    |
     wget               |                   [] []     []                    |
     wyslij-po          |                      []     []                    |
     xboard             |                      []                           |
     xdg-user-dirs      | []    [] []    [] [] []     []         []    []   |
     xkeyboard-config   | []                [] []     []                    |
                        +---------------------------------------------------+
                          sv sw ta te tg th tr uk  ur vi  wa wo zh_CN zh_HK
                          83  1  4  3  0 14 54 115  1 131  7  1  70     7  

                          zh_TW
                        +-------+
     a2ps               |       | 30
     aegis              |       |  9
     anubis             |       | 19
     aspell             |       | 28
     bash               |       | 24
     bfd                |       |  9
     binutils           |       | 12
     bison              |  []   | 17
     bison-runtime      |  []   | 38
     buzztrax           |       |  7
     ccd2cue            |       |  7
     ccide              |       | 15
     cflow              |       | 15
     clisp              |       | 10
     coreutils          |       | 23
     cpio               |  []   | 21
     cppi               |       | 16
     cpplib             |  []   | 19
     cryptsetup         |       | 12
     datamash           |       |  9
     denemo             |       |  3
     dfarc              |       | 16
     dialog             |  []   | 42
     dico               |       |  6
     diffutils          |       | 21
     dink               |       |  9
     direvent           |       | 10
     doodle             |       | 12
     dos2unix           |  []   | 16
     dos2unix-man       |       |  7
     e2fsprogs          |       | 13
     enscript           |       | 21
     exif               |       | 26
     fetchmail          |       | 19
     findutils          |       | 28
     flex               |  []   | 18
     freedink           |       | 23
     fusionforge        |       |  3
     gas                |       |  5
     gawk               |       | 12
     gcal               |       |  7
     gcc                |       |  4
     gdbm               |       | 10
     gettext-examples   |  []   | 40
     gettext-runtime    |  []   | 34
     gettext-tools      |  []   | 24
     gip                |  []   | 28
     gjay               |       |  8
     glunarclock        |  []   | 27
     gnubiff            |       |  9
     gnubik             |       | 17
     gnucash            |  ()   |  6
     gnuchess           |       | 10
     gnulib             |       | 23
     gnunet             |       |  1
     gnunet-gtk         |       |  1
     gold               |       |  7
     gphoto2            |  []   | 21
     gprof              |       | 21
     gpsdrive           |       | 13
     gramadoir          |       | 14
     grep               |  []   | 30
     grub               |       | 21
     gsasl              |  []   | 19
     gss                |       | 17
     gst-plugins-bad    |       | 12
     gst-plugins-base   |       | 26
     gst-plugins-good   |       | 32
     gst-plugins-ugly   |       | 34
     gstreamer          |  []   | 31
     gtick              |       | 19
     gtkam              |       | 24
     gtkorphan          |       | 20
     gtkspell           |  []   | 48
     guix               |       |  6
     guix-packages      |       |  0
     gutenprint         |       | 13
     hello              |  []   | 29
     help2man           |       | 17
     help2man-texi      |       |  5
     hylafax            |       |  5
     idutils            |       | 14
     indent             |  []   | 32
     iso_15924          |  []   | 22
     iso_3166           |  []   | 58
     iso_3166_2         |       |  9
     iso_4217           |  []   | 28
     iso_639            |  []   | 46
     iso_639_3          |       | 10
     iso_639_5          |       |  2
     jwhois             |  []   | 20
     kbd                |       | 19
     klavaro            |       | 29
     latrine            |       |  6
     ld                 |  []   | 14
     leafpad            |  []   | 40
     libc               |  []   | 24
     libexif            |       |  9
     libextractor       |       |  5
     libgnutls          |       | 13
     libgpg-error       |       | 15
     libgphoto2         |       |  8
     libgphoto2_port    |  []   | 19
     libgsasl           |       | 18
     libiconv           |  []   | 29
     libidn             |       | 17
     liferea            |       | 29
     lilypond           |       | 10
     lordsawar          |       |  3
     lprng              |       |  3
     lynx               |       | 19
     m4                 |  []   | 22
     mailfromd          |       |  3
     mailutils          |       |  6
     make               |       | 17
     man-db             |       | 14
     man-db-manpages    |       |  9
     midi-instruments   |  []   | 43
     minicom            |  []   | 17
     mkisofs            |       | 13
     myserver           |       |  9
     nano               |  []   | 29
     opcodes            |       | 11
     parted             |  []   | 20
     pies               |       |  4
     popt               |  []   | 36
     procps-ng          |       |  5
     procps-ng-man      |       |  4
     psmisc             |  []   | 21
     pspp               |       | 12
     pushover           |       |  6
     pwdutils           |       |  8
     pyspread           |       |  5
     radius             |       |  9
     recode             |       | 31
     recutils           |       |  9
     rpm                |  []   | 12
     rush               |       | 10
     sarg               |       |  3
     sed                |  []   | 34
     sharutils          |       | 11
     shishi             |       |  6
     solfege            |       | 19
     solfege-manual     |       |  9
     spotmachine        |       |  8
     sudo               |       | 23
     sudoers            |       | 20
     sysstat            |       | 23
     tar                |  []   | 30
     texinfo            |       | 17
     texinfo_document   |       | 11
     tigervnc           |       |  7
     tin                |  []   |  6
     tin-man            |       |  1
     tracgoogleappsa... |  []   | 21
     trader             |       | 10
     util-linux         |       | 12
     ve                 |       | 12
     vice               |       |  1
     vmm                |       |  3
     vorbis-tools       |       | 13
     wastesedge         |       |  2
     wcd                |       |  7
     wcd-man            |       |  3
     wdiff              |  []   | 22
     wget               |       | 21
     wyslij-po          |       | 14
     xboard             |       |  8
     xdg-user-dirs      |  []   | 68
     xkeyboard-config   |  []   | 27
                        +-------+
       90 teams           zh_TW
      170 domains          44    2810

   Some counters in the preceding matrix are higher than the number of
visible blocks let us expect.  This is because a few extra PO files are
used for implementing regional variants of languages, or language
dialects.

   For a PO file in the matrix above to be effective, the package to
which it applies should also have been internationalized and
distributed as such by its maintainer.  There might be an observable
lag between the mere existence a PO file and its wide availability in a
distribution.

   If June 2010 seems to be old, you may fetch a more recent copy of
this `ABOUT-NLS' file on most GNU archive sites.  The most up-to-date
matrix with full percentage details can be found at
`http://translationproject.org/extra/matrix.html'.

1.5 Using `gettext' in new packages
===================================

If you are writing a freely available program and want to
internationalize it you are welcome to use GNU `gettext' in your
package.  Of course you have to respect the GNU Library General Public
License which covers the use of the GNU `gettext' library.  This means
in particular that even non-free programs can use `libintl' as a shared
library, whereas only free software can use `libintl' as a static
library or use modified versions of `libintl'.

   Once the sources are changed appropriately and the setup can handle
the use of `gettext' the only thing missing are the translations.  The
Free Translation Project is also available for packages which are not
developed inside the GNU project.  Therefore the information given above
applies also for every other Free Software Project.  Contact
`coordinator@translationproject.org' to make the `.pot' files available
to the translation teams.

